Hands-on Project 2
Ms. Jones notifies you that the former employee has used an additional drive. She asks you to examine this new drive to determine whether 
it contains an account number the employee might have had accessed to. The account number 461562, belongs to the senior vice president and 
is used to access the company’s banking service over the Internet.

1. Start ProDiscover Basic. In the New Project tab, enter a project number, the project name C1Prj03, and a brief description, and then
click Open. Save the project in your work folder by clicking File, Save Project from the menu.

2. To add the evidence, click Action from the menu, point to Add, and click Image File. Navigate to your work folder, click the C1Prj03.dd
file, and then click Open. Click Yes in the Auto Image Checksum message box, if necessary. Notice that the image file is a .dd file, not an
.eve file. Like most forensic tools, ProDiscover can read standard UNIX .dd image files.

3. To aid in your investigation, you might want to view graphics files on the drive. To do this, click to expand Content View in the tree
view, click to expand Images, and then click the pathname containing the image file.

4. Click View, Gallery View from the menu. Scroll through the graphics files of the drive image. You’ll need to search through all folders,
which can take some time. If a file is of interest, click and check box next to it in the Select Column. In the Add Comment dialogue box 
that opens, enter description and click OK. These notes are added to the ProDiscover report.

5. This drive is related to the case in Hands-On Project 1, so you’re still looking for occurrences of the word ‘”book”. Open the Search
dialogue box, and repeat Steps 5 though to 8 of Hands-On Project 1 for this drive image. When you view the search research, click to 
select any files of interest (as described in Step 4), which opens the Add Comment dialog box where you can enter notes. 

6. Next, search for the account number Ms. Jones gave you. Click the Search toolbar button. Click the Content Search tab, if necessary, 
and type 461562 as the search keyword. Click to select the drive you’re searching, and then click OK. Click the cluster Search tab, and
repeat the search for the account number. Remember to select any files of interest and enter notes in the Add Comment dialog box.

7. When you’re finished, click Report in the tree view. Scroll through the report to make sure all the items you found are listed.

8. Next, click the Export toolbar button. In the Export dialog, click the RTF Format option button, type Ch1Prj03Report in the File Name
text box, and then click OK. (If you want to store the report in a different folder, click Browse and navigate to the new location.)

9. Save the project and exit ProDiscover Basic.
