Hands-on Project 1
In this project, you work for a large corporation’s IT security company. Your duties include conducting internal computing investigations 
and forensics examinations on company computing systems. A paralegal from the Law Department Ms. Jones, asks you to examine a USB drive 
belonging to an employee who left the company and now works for a competitor. The Law Department is concerned that the former employee 
might possess sensitive company data. Ms. Jones wants to know whether the USB drives contains anything significant.
In addition, she informs you that the former employee might have had access to confidential documents because a co-worker saw him 
accessing his manager’s computer on their last day of work. These confidential documents consists of 24 files with the text “book.” She 
wants you to locate any occurrences of these files on the USB drive’s bit stream image.

First of all, create a work folder to save project related files. To process this case, make sure you have extracted C1Prj02.eve file to 
your work folder, and then follow these steps:

1. Start ProDiscover Basic. In the New Project tab, enter a project number, the project name C1Prj02, and a project description, and then 
click Open. It’s a good idea to get in the habit of saving the project immediately, so click File, Save Project from the menu, and save 
the file in your work folder.
2. Click Action from the menu, point to Add, and click Image File. Navigate to and click C1Prj02.eve in your work folder, and then click 
Open. If the Auto Image Checksum message opens, click Yes.
3. In the tree view, click to expand Content View, if necessary. Click to expand Images, and then click the pathname containing the image
file. In the work area, examine the files that are listed.
4. To search for the keyword “book,” click the Search toolbar button to open the Search dialog box
5. If necessary, click the Contact Search tab, and then click the ASCII option button and the Search for the pattern(s) options button.
Type book in the list box for search keywords. Under Select and Disk(s)/Images(s) you want to search in, click the drive you’re searching
in, and then click OK.
6. In the tree view, click to expand Search Results, if necessary, and then click Content Search Results to specify the type of search.
7. Next, open the Search dialogue box again, click the Cluster Search  tab, and run the same search. Note that it takes longer because
each cluster on the drive is searched.
8. In the tree view, click Cluster Search Results, and view the search results pane. Remember to save your project and exit ProDiscover 
Basic.

Resources required:
ProDiscover Basic
C1Prj02.eve
